our troops across the globe are involved
in complex peacekeeping humanitarian and
combat operations there are no longer
clear lines that define a battlefield or
a combat zone operational areas include
a complicated mix of military personnel
insurgents and non-combatants for this
reason our men and women in uniform want
and need a safe and effective non-lethal
extended-range deterrent that provides
them the ability to protect themselves
and innocent non-combatants during
military operations in response to this
need the Active Denial system advanced
concept technology demonstration has
built the first non-lethal counter
personnel directed-energy weapon the a
CTD is designed to match new concepts
with the needs of our war fighters and
expedite the process of developing
testing and fielding these technologies
so that we can more quickly meet the
needs of our men and women serving in
operational environments ABS uses a
directed beam of millimeter wave energy
that penetrates about 1/64 of an inch
into the adversary skin the energy is
harmless the superficial heating effect
is nearly instantaneous and the
adversary instinctively flees ABS is an
ideal choice for protecting members of
the US military and their equipment in a
wide range of operations particularly
when the use of lethal force would be
counterproductive ABS utilizes
groundbreaking technology that is
designed to save lives protect the
innocent and limit collateral damage
while effectively repelling adversaries
the direct and controlled non-lethal
beam of AES gives the system
extraordinary potential for use in
situations where insurgents hide among
non-combatants ABS will give our troops
of greater capability to determine the
intent of individuals before they reach
a threatening range the technology was
developed by the Air Force Research
Laboratory and under the auspices of the
deputy undersecretary of Defense for
advanced systems and concepts and the
DoD's joint non-lethal weapons
Directorate
ADEs will provide our men and women on
the battlefield and extraordinary new
capability for the first time they will
have a non-lethal system with a range
greater than that of traditional small
arms weapons it will give them the
flexibility they need on today's complex
battlefield abs will minimize fatalities
by providing our forces a non-lethal
option between shouting and shooting abs
and directed-energy are the future of
non-lethal weapons and represent a new
capability that our war fighters want
and need we succeed in today's missions